Here are six words that are stronger than "good". Good
morning, my friend.
This is Coffee with Kaizen #6. And like I said in the intro
today, I'm going. To teach you six different words that are
stronger than the word "good".And I'm not just going to
teach you the words. Hopefully I can give you the
Definitions and a little bit of context because you need to
know or at least have an idea of when to use each word, even
though they're all similar. Alright, let's get started.
Alright. Word number one is "great". "Great" means of an
extent, amount, or intensity considerably above the normal
or average.
That's a lot of words to say something very simple. "Great"
is just like "good" 2.0 or "good" on steroids, right? For
example, I hope you have a great day. Like it's totally
normal for us to say, "Have a good day, have a nice day."
But if I say, "I hope you have a great day", it just means
really, really, really, really good. You know, kind of like
the definition said above the normal or above average. So
everybody has a good day. That's like level five, right? But
a great day is like level ten, you know, really, really
good. That's the idea. So another example would be "You are
a great teacher." Thank you.
Again, what I'm saying there is you are above average.
Average is kind of like the normal level where most people
live, where the majority is, the skill level of the
majority, that's average. But if you are a great teacher and
you are above the rest, your quality is unmatched my friend.
You're great. You're not just "good", you're "great",
right? Another example, "He has what it takes to be a great
leader." There's two things I want to explain there. The
first one, "great" leader. Now you should have an idea. It
just means really, really, really good leader. Above
average, you see, not the normal quality. Okay. But the
second thing is, when I say he has what it takes to be
something. To have what it takes means to possess the
qualities or qualifications or whatever is necessary to do
something. So if I say you have what it takes to be a great
leader, you have all the qualities necessary for being a
great leader. Hopefully that makes sense. If it doesn't, let
me know in the comments or send me a message or whatever and
I'll try to explain it in a different way. Alright. The next
word on the list is "amazing". "Amazing". Now, the
definition of "amazing" is causing great surprise or wonder.
For example, I had an amazing time with you tonight. I had
an amazing time with you tonight. So we went out on a date.
We went and saw a movie. I had lots of fun. And I say, "Man,
I had an amazing time." Not just a good time, but it was
amazing. It was wonderful, right? It was really, really,
really good. An amazing time. So another example, the energy
of the crowd was amazing. So imagine you went to a concert
or your favorite band or your favorite singer or something
like that, and everybody in the crowd had so much energy and
excitement and everybody was screaming and having a great
time. It's almost like you could feel the energy in the room
rising and rising and rising. It was amazing. Something that
you will never forget. It wasn't just a good show. It was an
amazing show, right? One more example. I can't believe you
learned two languages in six months. That's amazing. So
basically what you're saying is that's surprising, but in a
really good way. That's really, really good. That's
surprising. That is "amazing".
Next word on the list. "Brilliant". "Brilliant".
"Brilliant". And what this means is exceptionally clever or
talented or also outstanding or impressive. So, for example,
she is a brilliant musician. She's a brilliant musician,
right? Her talent is amazing. It's outstanding. She's very,
very clever.
She's very smart. You might even call her a genius because
she's brilliant. Now, a very, very common way to use this
word is with talents like I just showed you. So another
thing you could say is "Messi is a brilliant soccer player."
He's a genius, right? Messi is not human, by the way. But,
you could say he's a "brilliant" soccer player. He's very,
very smart, very clever, very intelligent, and uses his
talent in a very skillful and intelligent way. Hopefully
that makes sense, you know? So again, when we use
"brilliant", a lot of times we're talking about intelligence
or somebody being smart, but in a situation where we're
really referring to their talent, you see what I'm saying?
Because a lot of people equate talent and intelligence for
whatever reason. So when you talk about somebody doing some
type of thing, they have this high level of skill. You can
say they are "brilliant" at what they do. Alright, cool.
Word number four. "Incredible".
"Incredible". The definition of "incredible" is impossible
to believe or amazingly good or beautiful. It just kind of
depends. So you could say that movie was incredible. That
movie was incredible. It was so good. I can't even believe
how good it was. It was amazing. It was...It was brilliant.
It was great. It was "incredible". So, again, like I said,
all of these words, depending on the context, have a similar
idea. It just means really, really, really good. Extremely
good. But there are times when we'll choose one word instead
of the other. Okay, so back to "incredible". Another
example. Let's imagine that you and your lady friend, you
guys are going out for dinner or for a date or something
like that. And she comes downstairs in this red dress and
you're like "Goddamn, she looks incredible." And that's what
you tell her. You can tell her. You won't just say "You look
good." You could say that, and there's nothing wrong with
that. But if you really want to put emphasis on it, if you
really want to express that, it's not just good, it's a lot
more than that. You can say, "You look incredible, you look
incredible." So good that I can't believe it. You see what
I'm saying? Alright, next word on the list. Number five is
"breathtaking".
This is one word b-r-e-a-t-h-t-a-k-i-n-g.
"Breathtaking". That's all one word, alright? But it's
really two words put together as one word. And the
definition is astonishing or awe-inspiring in quality so as
to take one's breath away.
Now, that definition, I imagine, isn't the easiest thing to
understand for somebody who's learning English. So let me
try to say it a different way. "Breathtaking" is something
that when you see it, it literally takes your breath away.
So let's say in a really common way to use this word is when
we're talking about like the view from a particular place or
the sunset and things like that. So let me give you an
example and then I'll keep explaining. A really common way
to use this word is with the sunset. That sunset was
breathtaking. That sunset was breathtaking.
So when you see it, it's so beautiful, it's so amazing, it's
so great, it's so wonderful. You see it and *gasp* like you
literally stop breathing because it's just so profoundly
beautiful that sunset, like you see it and say, *gasp*
"Wow." That is breathtaking, right?
That's amazing. That's beautiful. That's wonderful. That's
the idea here. So another example, kind of like I said, is
the view. So you can say the view from my home is
breathtaking. So imagine you live on the top of a mountain
or something like that. And when you look out your window,
you can see the beach, you can see the entire city, you can
see the entire forest, whatever it is. But the entire view,
everything you can see from your home inspires awe, inspires
wonder and admiration.
You see what I'm saying? It takes your breath away it's just
amazing. That's the idea. So "breathtaking", many times we
won't use it when we're just saying something is good or
great. A lot of times something is "breathtaking" it's
because it literally *gasp* takes your breath away. It's so
good or amazing or beautiful that you stop breathing just
because it's so surprisingly good. Hopefully that makes
sense. I feel like I just said good, surprising, wonderful,
great 50 times, but I'm just trying to help you understand
the context so that you can use the word the same way that I
would use the word or any native would use the word.
Hopefully that makes sense. Alright, last word. Number six
on the list is "outstanding". "Outstanding".
Now the definition of "outstanding" is just exceptionally
good. That's literally the definition. So I could say, "You
did an outstanding job." Man, you did an outstanding job. So
the way you can think about this word "outstanding" is to
flip it around and say standing out because to "stand out",
which is actually a phrasal verb, I don't have the
definition right here in front of me, but the way I
understand the word "stand out" or excuse me, the phrasal
verb "stand out" is to be exceptional and very different
from the rest. That could be a good thing or that could be a
bad thing. It just depends on the context. Actually, let me
find the definition really quick so I can explain it more
clearly because this is important for you to understand. So
the dictionary definition that I found is to be clearly
better or more significant than someone or something. So if
you're watching this on YouTube, it'll make much more sense
because I'm going to show you visually, if you're just
listening, I'll try my best to explain it verbally. So
again, to clearly be better or more significant than someone
or something, that's what it means to "stand out". So we
have, let's say, five soccer players here and I'm number
six. We all play on the same team, but I "stand out" because
I am clearly better. I'm clearly different. When you look at
all of us, your attention most likely goes to me because I'm
so much better, because I "stand out", because my quality is
so much higher. My skill level is so much higher. Hopefully
that makes sense. Alright. So getting back to the word
"outstanding", if I say you did an outstanding job, that
just means you did an exceptionally good job, right? Not the
typical good job, but something so much better than the
typical job or so much better than everyone else's job.
That's really what I'm saying. It was outstanding and a lot
of times we'll use this word in relation to performance,
right? So your performance at work was outstanding, your
performance in the football game was outstanding, your
performance on stage was outstanding. A lot of times we'll
use it in that context. You can use it for anything that you
want to say, something stronger than "good". For example, I
hope you have an outstanding day. It's not the most common
thing to say, but it doesn't make sense. Or you're going on
a date with your girl and she looks great today. You can
say, "You look outstanding." Again, not the most common way
to use that word, but it does make sense. So that's why I
spent so much time trying to give you the context in which
we use all six of these words so that you can start to get
an idea of what they mean because they all just mean
something stronger than "good", exceptionally good, better
than average things like that. That's...they all have that
idea. But just like in your native language, there are words
that have similar meanings, but you choose particular words
depending on the context, right? So that's the reason I
spent so much time trying to explain that. And hopefully it
makes sense. Alright, that's it for now, man. That's Coffee
with Kaizen #6 in the books. And the next episode, I'm going
to teach you six words that are stronger than "bad". Peace.